;; This buffer is for notes you don't want to save, and for Lisp evaluation.
;; If you want to create a file, visit that file with C-x C-f,
;; then enter the text in that file's own buffer.


For the last several years, Foolscap has created its program using the Open Space approach. This means that instead of planning our panels out in advance, we come together at the convention and figure out what we really want to talk about. We wait until the convention itself because we want to find out what interests people right now, so that we know the conversations we start will be interesting right now. For this to work, it requires participation from you -- you're here, and you're a member.
There are two sessions where we come together as a group to build the schedule: one on Friday in the early evening, and one on Saturday around lunchtime. This way, more people can suggest items. If something you love doesn't make the schedule on Friday, you can try again to get it in on Saturday. We have many slots of time available -- they aren't infinite, but they hold most of what we want.
At each of these sessions, there's a form for you to say something about what you're inviting a conversation about, and what form you think the conversation should take. Want to have a discussion about how the Sad Puppies might affect the upcoming Hugo Awards? Propose it! Want to get Dave Howell to share his stories from the early days of Wizards of the Coast? Ask him if he'll talk about it, and propose it if he agrees! Want to share recommendations for your next favorite anime, dissect the fantastical themes in music, or brainstorm about how to improve the future? Foolscap is the right place, and we'll figure out the right time.
We construct our program interactively, talking about suggestions as they're brought up. As new program items are suggested, we might talk about combining similar items. We work to be mindful of the original proposer's intent, and we won't combine panels if the proposers don't think they go together. Program items that other people suggest can spur you to produce new ones. That's all part of the fun of an evolving conversation.
Once we have a set of proposals, we'll give people a batch of dots to mark the items they want to talk about. This helps us figure out which items have a critical mass of people who find them interesting. And then we put together a tentative schedule, trying to keep items that have a similar audience happening at different times -- and making sure that nobody is scheduled to run two items at the same time. Again, this step requires your feedback: if you really want to see two items that we're scheduling at the same time, say something. If the organizers can work out different times, we're often able to change it so you can get to all the program items you want!
Finally, we take the program we've created together and we put it up on the wall, making our collaborative program the centerpiece of the convention. We still invite you to engage actively with the program once it's set. When you're in a program item, if it's not what you were hoping for, feel free to see what's happening in the other room, or find someone to talk with in the Commons. If you think the conversation is falling into a rut, or one person is monopolizing the floor, use your voice to help moderate. By actively working together to keep our discussions lively and equitable, we have more interesting conversations!
 Our Open Space program is an ongoing experiment in new and different ways to keep our convention interesting, and we hope you'll join in and participate. By suggesting program items for the con, helping select the items that we'll present, and actively seeking out the parts of the convention that interest you most, we hope you'll have the best con for you, and help everyone around you do the same for them.
We can't wait to see your ideas.

